This is a project completed as a requirement for the course EE531: Estimation and Detection Theory at IIT Mandi. We were given a dataset consisting of 86 subjects, 50 epileptic and 36 healthy, and we needed to build a classifier and gauge the performance of it using the ROC curve. The final deliverable for the project was the ROC curve with an IEEE style paper summarizing the result.

**Course Project EE 531, Spring 2024**

The overall goal of this project is to make you familiar with the classical techniques of building a detector/classifier that do not rely on the modern methods of statistical learning. By going through the exercise of building a detector on your own you will develop the engineering instinct of design and understanding its limits, which often go underappreciated with black-box approaches of modern machine learning. The inherent limitations of a dataset and the theoretical limits of performance can only be understood if you undertake such an exercise. The course project is 50% of the course grade and therefore demands a lot of time and effort. You will be graded on the thoroughness with which you treat each aspect of the design process while at the same time how well you are able to make engineering decisions that ensure you are able to submit the deliverables in a timely fashion. You can use any language you prefer for coding. You will have to submit your code. The final report should be written like an IEEE paper. You do not need to format it like an IEEE paper but if you do so it can only add value to the presentation. You can make groups of 2 for the project.

The detector you will be designing needs to take an EEG recording as the input and decide whether it belongs to a healthy or epileptic subject. The EEG has been recorded using the 10-20 electrode placement system. The signals will be available in referential montage and can be converted very easily in any other montage if you wish to change the montage.  A simple internet search can tell you about the basics of EEG, recording principles and montages. The EEG signals you will get will be of 3-5 minutes duration, sampled at 125 Hz. Your final deliverable will be the ROC curve of the detector with AUC calculated. If you are unable to arrive at the final deliverable, I would see your approach to reach to the final deliverable. Ideally you want an ROC curve with the highest AUC possible but you can always trade off the complexity of the problem involved in coming up with the best detector with a working solution that shows you have implemented the basic ideas of building a detector and performed an assessment of its performance. 

**Deliverable:**

- Create the pipeline of how with the EEG data you will design a detector and compute its ROC curve. Formulate the particular problem you have been given in terms of concepts taught in class and describe how you would proceed at each step. Hint: You would need to estimate probability density functions! 

- Estimate the PDFs of observations or the features computed on those observations. Easy choices: Directly use EEG, use only one electrode’s data to compute PDF, and use only one method to estimate PDF. Additional choices (for more credit): Estimate PDFs for features, multiple observations/features and more than one estimation technique. You are expected to submit a report that describes the method you use to estimate PDFs and features explicitly. Your colleagues not taking this course should be able to read and replicate your work based on the report. Organization and comprehensibility will be a key parameter for grading along with technical accuracy. (IEEE format needed only for the final report)
